Let's pop over to our code,
Here in ingredients,
I'm gonna close this for a little bit.
First thing here,
we will connect to postgres,
we're gonna say,
const pg = require ('pg').
const pool = new pg.pool.
User: 'postgres'
Host: 'localhost' database,
whatever you call it your
database it could be postgres,
it should be 'recipeguru',
if you've been following the wrong.
Password: it's whatever
you set the password as.
I put mine as lol because I'm a child.
And port: 5432 cuz that is
the default port for postgres.
Okay, this will connect
us to the database now,
and we'll have a pool that we can use.
So whenever someone calls backs or
type, we wanna return to them,
the ingredients of that specific type,
right?
So here we wanna say const  = await
Pool.query Something like,
"SELECT * FROM ingredients
WHERE type = $1".
Okay, and then here we're
just gonna provide type into,
the parameterized query here.
Await here is going to do the query,
it'll pause the execution here, and
then it'll wait for
that rows to come back.
So once status is back,
then here we're gonna say,
instead of res.status,
we'll do a 200.
That's actually optional,
you could actually just delete
that cuz it does that by default.
And then the status here, you can delete
that cuz we don't actually need it.
And then you can do rows here like that.
Should work now, if we go back
over to our Recipe Guru website.
You can see so far this is
working the way we expect it to.
We have fruit, we have veggies,
we have meat, and we have other.
That all works.
Your carousel won't work yet
because the client side code is
Aryan cuz that's how I wrote it.
So let's make the other one work as well.
So, there's a bunch of ways
that you could do this.
I'm just gonna show you how I did it.
Delete that.
We're gonna say,
let whereClause; say,
const params = [page * 5].
So, if page comes back as zero,
that means you're on the zero with page.
You want everything from 0 to the 5th or
the 4th,
it'll be the 5th one but index 4, right.
If it comes back with page one,
this will be 1 times 5, so
it'll be 5, answer will be 5, 10, 15, 20.
Okay, if there's a search (term),
then I'm going to add my whereClause =
'WHERE CONCAT and I put (title and type).
If you just did title, that's fine.
I'm searching across title and type.
And then I'm gonna say,
ILIKE$2' Okay,
and then we're gonna say,
params.push(term)
Again, it doesn't matter if $2
comes before $1 in the query,
it's still gonna go on the order
that we tell it to, right?
And then now I'm gonna say
let const rows, equals,
rather const  = await pool.query
"SELECT * FROM ingredients"
And then, optionally,
I might need this whereClause.
So if they put a search term in there,
then we wanna filter by that like,
write this ILIKE here.
So we can do this whereClause like this.
If whereClause is just an empty string,
right?
We can even put that here.
Then this will just be
nothing in whitespace, right?
Which is fine.
So it'll either filter or not And
then we'll do OFFSET $1,
which is coming from this, right?
And then we'll do LIMIT 5.
Okay, and
then here we can get rid of the status
where you can put 200 there up to you.
Give it as status not implemented,
and we can say rows like that.
If you're not familiar with this rows
like that where I just have one it's both
the key and the value, right?
Where I have, the row key is going to be
assigned rows that I get from right here.
You can just do shorthand and
make it rows like that.
Okay, so if we go back over here and
refresh,
Still getting a little
bit of an error here.
Did I crash my server?
I did, probably.
There's no $1 parameter.
Yeah, Dustin.
>> Comment in the chat that no parameters
are passed to pull that query.
>> That's correct.
Thank you.
So you have to pass in the params
right there, or else it's gonna crash,
cuz it's trying to look for
variables that you didn't provide to it.
So now if I refresh,
everything is coming in okay.
And it's paging okay, which is great.
So there's one more thing
I kind of wanna show you.
It's a kind of peeking ahead a little bit.
Obviously, there are no more pages here,
right?
Because it only returned one, so how do
we know if there are more pages or not?
Well, we have to do something to
kinda pick ahead in our query.
So, there's a whole section
on window functions, but
I'm gonna show you really
quickly how to do this.
'SELECT* and
then we're gonna say, COUNT (*)
:: INT AS total_count
So what this is gonna do is this
is actually going to go and
count how many rows total exist for
this query.
It's gonna return them as
a number called total count.
Let me just show you what that looks like.
So if I refresh the page, and
they go to my Network tab,
And it crashed, why did that crash?
Yep, okay.
COUNT (*) OVER () ::
INT Okay, not crashing, network.
I'm going to show you the results first,
and then I'll explain to you
why it happened that way.
So we have this search,
this is what's coming back from the API,
let's make this a little bit bigger.
So this is our search,
one that we were just implementing,
you can see all the rows coming back here.
Id:1, red pepper, so this matches
up to this one right here, right?
Title, red pepper, we see that.
Image, red pepper we see that right there,
type vegetable we see that right there.
And then we have this count 31.
That's how many total rows exist for
this entire query that we have, right?
And it's actually on every single one,
total count,
total count, total count, right?
And it's the same on every one of them.
So, this is what's called a window
function that's selecting across rows.
So, there's a whole section on it.
But the whole reason that we did that,
is so now if we paginate all of
our information here,
eventually it'll rise to the last one, and
it can know there's only 31 in this set,
and we're way past that, I'm done, right?
That's called the window function.
And just to prove to
you that I'm not lying,
we will explain that in depth
here in window functions.
We'll actually explain part of
it as well here in aggregation,
which we're about to do.
But suffice to say,
this part right here is counting
how many results we have for
that entire set.
It'll change right so
going back here if I type in berry
Now we're too far away.
Did I crush now?
I did it.
So this is fine,
we're learning all the things now.
My error here is that offset
must not be negative.
[INAUDIBLE]
>> In your solution for
params.push in the whereClause,
you actually have
the parentheses around the term
Rather than just pushing in term,
you actually put in the [INAUDIBLE].
>> Yeah, good point.
Okay, so what you have to do here,
which I have also not done correctly here,
is that you have to put in term like that,
right?
Which is what I was alluding to earlier
with my note that you have to wrap it
yourself in the percentages.
Okay, try that again.
>> Curious,
what if you just put percent around
the $1 in the query, will that still work?
>> No, which is why I
specifically called it out there.
So if you wanted to put it here, right?
[CROSSTALK]
>> That $2, that's what I mean.
That wouldn't work?
>> Pretty sure it doesn't work, cool, So
I wanted to show you search for berry.
You have to take these out again.
All right, berry,
we get three berries there and come on.
Berry, Just to demonstrate,
you look to your rows.
Notice this count over, so
the total count it's only counting
from that sub query, right?
So including that whereClause there's only
three rows that will be returned here.
So that's what the window
function does for you.
Okay, so that was sufficiently fun and
messy, which is,
all good code is worth being messy about.
But I think we also kind
of learned a couple.
One of the things I really
do like about postgres is,
it gives you very good error messages.
When something goes wrong,
it's typically this like, hey,
you did something here, and
I don't get it, you should look at it.
Which usually is pretty close
to leading you to a solution.
Frequently even says like you did this,
and you probably wanted to do this.